[THEME MUSIC]
>> Welcome to a special
series of "Missing Links,"
where your questions
get answered.
I'm your host, Tiffany
Bush, and I'm also
the head of the member
support team here at Gaia.
And with me today is the star
of the show, Gregg Braden.
We're here to answer your
questions from the first season
of "Missing Links."
Gregg, it's a
pleasure to have you.
Thank you so much
for joining me today.
>> Thank you so much.
I don't know about you.
Does it seem like these
sessions go by really fast?
>> Yes.
Yes.
>> It does for me as well.
I know the title of
what we're doing today.
I don't know the
questions, and I'm really
excited to talk
about this topic.
So I'm going to let you
lead with first question.
>> Thank you.
I'm so excited to
share these questions.
We get so many from the members
that have all these burning
questions.
The first one is from Aaron.
He wants to know, is
it possible that there
were civilizations that dated
back to billions of years?
>> As a degreed
geologist, scientifically,
I have to say the answer
is probably not possible
because Earth, right now, is
scientifically dated at 4.5
billion years old.
And that comes from
three different sources.
They've dated the solar
system itself, meteorites.
There's a process of dating
lead isotopes on the Earth,
and the age of the crust
of the Earth itself.
And all three of those--
if it was just one,
I could question it.
All three of them are pointing
to the same date, 4.5 billion
years, when the Earth formed.
And after the Earth
formed, it had
to go through a
cooling process that
would take quite a bit of time.
So I think what we're
finding is that civilization
is much older than we've
ever been led to believe.
And I think we're
probably talking--
now, we've been led to
believe that civilization,
that modern civilization,
advanced technological
civilization, began about
5,000, 5,500 years ago.
Scientifically, that date is now
pushed back almost three times
to 15,000 years before present.
So Gobekli Tepe is now
dated into the last ice age.
However, I believe
the new evidence--
this is changing so
quickly, Tiffany.
As climate change melts
the ice on Antarctica,
on the continent of Antarctica,
the Earth penetrating radar
is now able to pick up images
underneath that ice suggesting,
large scale complex civilization
at the bottom of the ice,
and that implies
one of two things.
Either it was built
while the ice was there,
somebody dug down through
the ice to build this,
or it was there
when the ice formed,
and that dates back
over 20,000 plus years.
So I think what we're
finding is we're
writing a new history
of civilization,
and the dates are
changing so fast.
The textbooks and the
classrooms have yet to catch up,
and we're still teaching our
young people civilization is
5,000 years old.
>> Thank you.
So Jeff P wants
to know, what are
your thoughts on
extraterrestrial involvement
in the origin of humanity?
And did extraterrestrial
fellow beings
create us in their image?
>> Sure this, again, it
comes down to language.
It depends on how we
define extraterrestrial.
What I'll say is the science--
and I do talk about
this in "Missing Links."
The new genetic
discoveries are telling us,
beyond any reasonable
doubt, that evolution
as we've been led to believe,
Darwin's theory of evolution,
is a fact in the world.
It is not the human story.
Humans appeared suddenly on
Earth about 200,000 years ago.
We have not changed
since we appeared.
We are today as we
were 200,000 years ago.
That's not Darwin's
idea of evolution.
And what makes us who we are,
what gives us our humanness,
is the result of a genetic
fusion, a fusion of DNA,
that gives us the human
qualities, specifically
in human chromosome number two.
We now know that this is the
result of a fusion of DNA
beyond the fusion.
Fusions we see sometimes
happen in nature,
but here's the giveaway.
After the chromosomes were fused
to give us our human chromosome
number two-- second
largest chromosome
in the human body,
8% of every cell.
It's the chromosome
that gives us
the cortex in our brain, that
allows us logic, compassion,
empathy, sympathy-- all of that
comes from human chromosome
number two.
After the chromosomes were
fused to give us that, there--
two complete and whole
chromosomes were fused.
Once that fusion
happened, you can
see where there would be
overlapping or redundant
functions because they
were complete before,
and now, when you
put them together,
those functions are
going to overlap.
So those overlapping
functions were turned off,
and in some cases, removed
completely to optimize
the new human chromosome two.
That's something that
cannot happen in evolution,
at least as we know it today.
It implies an intentionality.
That intentionality
is referenced
in every indigenous
tradition that I
have ever, ever
studied, including
ancient Sumerian civilization.
Every indigenous
tradition talks about us
being the product of
an intentional act
from an intelligent
source of life
that originates from some
other part of the universe,
and is not necessarily
native to this world.
And also suggests
that we are hybrids,
because those traditions tell
us that, while we are made
of the dust of the Earth,
as the terms they use,
or the minerals of
the Earth, we're also
infused with qualities from
these higher intelligences.
And if we're going to call
those the extraterrestrials--
I'm not even really sure
what that term means anymore.
Just means not from Earth,
as we know it today.
Maybe they have been
here in the past.
I don't know.
So it implies the engineering
of DNA to give us our humanness,
and that that was,
in fact, facilitated
by something other than
random acts of evolution.
That makes sense if
I answered that way?
>> It does, and I think--
>> It's a big question,
and I want to honor it.
But I also know that
we're limited on time,
and I want to do my best here.
>> We are.
So maybe this question from
Cliff might be a good one.
He says, how old do you
think the Earth actually is,
and when do you think
the human was created?
>> OK, perfect.
We know, as I mentioned,
geologically, I
think we've got a pretty
good date on the Earth--
4.5 billion years for the Earth.
Humankind, what are called
anatomically modern humans,
showed up 200,000 years ago.
When I was in school
back in the '50s, '60s,
they were called
Cro-Magnon, and we
were taught that it was
some kind of a caveman.
Now, we know that Cro-Magnon--
they're able--
this is so amazing.
They're able to pull the
DNA from fossilized remains,
the bone marrow of these beings.
It's like "Jurassic Park" stuff.
They can actually pull
the DNA out of the fossils
and build the genome, and what
they know is that they are us,
and we are them.
We haven't changed.
So we appeared-- anatomically
modern humans appeared
200,000 years ago,
but there doesn't
appear to be an evolutionary
path that led to us.
So like, boom, we showed
that, and that's the mystery.
How can that happen?
The genetic engineering now
is telling us how it happened.
It cannot tell us
why it happened.
>> So we do know that we
were created with lots
of capabilities, and one,
going back a long time ago,
pyramid technology.
So this is a question
that I actually submitted,
and maybe this is a good
way to talk about this.
But we know that sound
healing, sound technology,
helped create--
or possibly create the
huge pyramids that we see.
Inside those pyramids, there's
a lot of healing capabilities
that have been proven out.
So the big question is, we have
this great knowledge, so one,
is anyone doing
anything about it
to make this a reality for
the general population,
like access to healing
through pyramid
technology or sound healing?
And then just why don't
you think more people
are doing things like this?
>> To answer the question, I
have to go back to the way it
was phrased, in terms of
the way pyramids were built.
As a scientist, I have
to say, scientifically,
there's no evidence suggesting
the pyramids were built using
any kind of sound technology.
It's a theory that's out there,
and it certainly is possible,
but the evidence
doesn't support it.
When I was in Egypt in
the 1980s, for example,
they were doing core samples
into the building blocks
of the pyramid because they
thought that the pyramid was
built of limestone that
they carved out of the cliff
and moved and put in place.
The core samples told
them that's not true,
that the Great
Pyramid, for example,
when they took those
core samples, if it
were a naturally occurring
rock, it would have layers.
It would have fossilized
seashells if it's limestone.
And what they found was
that it wasn't layered.
It was completely homogeneous.
There were air bubbles
and traces of human hair
that were in the rock.
What scientists
now believe, those
that were doing the
study, is that that rock
is an artificial stone.
It's pulverized of natural
rock, mixed with an epoxy,
and poured.
The stones were poured
in place to give them
the high tolerances,
the close fit.
That way you don't have to
get the stone-- you pour it
in place.
You don't have to carry it up,
so I just want to say that.
There are healing properties
that are known within pyramids,
and that technology is
embraced in some capacities
to those that are open to it.
Others are not.
We may never see it
openly in our society
because of what we've
been taught about physics
and the way things work.
So there are commercial
applications using pyramid
technology, and some of those--
for example, in some
northern European countries,
they're using pyramid
shaped packages
to package the yogurt because
the yogurt doesn't go bad.
They're using the pyramid--
they call them chargers
for razor blades
because the razor
blades won't dull
when they're placed under these
after they're used each day.
So those-- the principles
are being incorporated
some commercial ways.
Whether or not we ever live in
a pyramid based society or not,
I don't-- personally, I don't
see that happening right now
because I think society doesn't
see a need for what is offered
in that technology.
>> Melinda Sweet wants to
address the Flat Earth theory.
We talked a little
bit about that
in season two episode
one of "Buzzsaw."
We asked Billy Carson
his take on that.
But Melinda wants
to know as well,
and that the reason is because
the ancient cosmologies have
indicated that the
world is a plain.
So can you address that?
>> I can address it.
I'm a degreed geologist.
I have looked into this to
satisfy my own curiosity.
So let me share with our viewers
what I have found, personally,
and then they can
do with it whatever
they would like to do with it.
I believe that the
evidence overwhelmingly
supports a curved Earth,
a spherical Earth.
I've talked to astronauts
that have been in space,
and their experience
of what they've seen
and what they have photographed,
so that's their experience.
And I said, well, OK, I
want my own experience,
so I've done my own experiments.
If we had a Flat Earth, I think
the phenomenon of the Eclipse
would not function
the way that it does.
When we see an eclipse,
the shadow of the Earth
on the moon, it's a sphere.
It's a circle.
Well, I have to
say it's a circle.
We don't know a sphere,
but it is a circle.
It's not flat.
When an experiment that
I've done-- if I take two
sticks, and I put
them in the ground
the shadow is going to
be cast exactly the same,
and if we were living
on a Flat Earth,
the shadows would be different.
When I'm at the beach,
and I see a ship coming
to me on the horizon, if this
was a Flat Earth it would start
is a tiny speck in the distance,
and I would see the full ship,
and it would simply become
larger as it came to me.
The reality of what
happens is when
you see that ship
in the distance,
first you see the
top of the ship,
and as it gets a
little closer, you
see a little more
and a little more
because it is coming up over
a spherical geometry rather
than a flat geometry.
I minored mathematics
in school, and I
think that the mathematics
and the geometry that we use,
that put us on
the moon, and that
has worked well enough to send
our probes to other planets,
and even land a probe
on a moving asteroid
and Earth, that is all
based on spherical geometry
of a spherical planet,
and the trajectories
of other spherical planets.
That math would not work
if this were a Flat Earth.
So my personal feeling is, when
the ancients talked about it,
I don't think they
mean it literally.
They did talk about
it, but I don't think
it was in a literal sense.
So that's what I have to
say to honor my audience
and my own experience
as a scientist.
And I'm open to
new possibilities,
and if somebody could show
me the evidence otherwise,
I'm certainly open to that.
>> Thank you.
>> Try your own
experiments, people.
Go out and do your own
experiments and see.
>> Debi Brown wants to know, is
it true that alien beings live
inside the Earth, which
supposedly has its own sun
and water like another
world inside the Earth?
>> Yeah, this is the
Hollow Earth theory.
You know, I studied this.
I saw it first
proposed in the 19--
well, early part of
the 20th Century.
And I studied this back
in the '60s and '70s,
and I've continued
to study because I
am open to all possibilities.
As a geologist--
it's interesting,
my background is in
geology because it's
given me the tools
to answer, you know,
a lot of these questions.
I worked in seismic geology
right out of college,
and seismic geology is
where we send vibration
into the Earth in a
number of different ways.
We can do it with a device
that hits the Earth very hard
and sends waves down, and we
can do it with small explosions.
We can do it with different
kinds of radio waves.
But the point is that the waves
travel at different speeds
through different
media, and what
we find is that there is
resistance to the waves
all the way down to the core.
So they travel through
the crust of the Earth,
the thickest part, at
one speed, and they try--
and then they bounce
back, and they
travel through the mantle
at a different speed
because it is more molten,
and then they bounce back.
And then there's an outer
core, and then there
is an inner core.
They believe it's solid
iron nickel, probably
is what they're
looking at right now,
that allows the magnetic
field of the Earth.
If the Earth were
hollow, we would
have space where those waves--
there's no resistance.
They'd travel so fast,
and they would come back,
and then they
don't tell us that.
Now, having said that, where
I think this idea comes from--
the crust is the thickest
part of the earth,
and I think the crust is
riddled with catacombs, tunnels,
artificial tunnels that were
created from lava tubes,
and things like that, that
have been used in ancient times
because they exist.
If they're there,
why not use them?
Almost universally, the creation
stories, native peoples,
talk about emerging from
underneath the Earth
after the times
of cataclysm where
they were safe, to emerge in
the new world of the surface.
And I've always
sensed, from talking
to my indigenous
friends, that they're
talking about preexisting
caverns that can go very, very
deep, but it's not
a hollow Earth,
and there's not another sun
per se living within the Earth.
Is it possible that
beings from the past
or beings from other worlds
could occupy those to have--
so they're not so obvious now?
Absolutely, I think.
I don't personally have
any experience with it.
I wouldn't be surprised
to find that that's true,
or to find that some of the
life forms of the past that we
thought were extinct
actually still exist
in some of these places.
They show up every
once in a while,
and you say, how could they
have hidden for all this time?
Bigfoot is a perfect example.
The high deserts of northern
New Mexico, my home,
are littered with these
underground caverns that
have been, and
continue to be, used
for a number of
different purposes.
So I think that might be where
the Hollow Earth come-- not so
much a hollow Earth per se,
but a tunneled crust that
goes very deep, that could
very well appear to be hollow,
a hollow Earth.
Does that makes sense?
Have I-- is that a good--
>> No, it does-- yeah,
absolutely, that was a great,
great explanation.
Thank you.
>> If the Earth were hollow,
those waves would react
differently when
they come back up,
and I'm all about empirical
science and being honest with
myself.
>> Let's talk about the
vibrational frequencies.
Christopher Wolf
wants to know, do you
consider progression of time
as a change in vibration?
Is the ancient past
or distant future
just a perceptual
change in frequency?
>> So it's a really
good question.
A very famous
scientist once said,
time is what happens
to keep everything
from running together,
and if you think about it,
I think it makes a lot of sense.
Time, I believe, is
fractal, and what I
mean by that is the
experiences that we
have in one point in our
lives repeat on a rhythmic,
a cyclic basis, again
to a greater degree,
and again to a greater degree.
So rather than being linear,
I think time is cyclic itself,
and I think our
perception of time
is directly linked to
vibration and to emotion.
It's our emotional attachment to
the events as they're occurring
and the ability of our emotions
to link us into a quantum
field in a very precise way.
We are both quantum
and mechanistic beings.
Time is one of the
greatest mysteries.
And human emotion,
that's been discounted
by modern science
in many respects,
is actually, in the
ancient traditions,
is the key to
mastering this quantum
world, the key to
mastering time travel,
the key to mastering healing.
It's all about emotions.
>> Interesting.
>> And no other form of life
has the ability to trigger
the emotions intentionally
at will the way that we do
as humans.
I'm not saying they
don't have them,
but we have the ability
to bring them into play
when we feel they are
appropriate in ways
that we feel are appropriate.
No other form of life, to
the best of my knowledge,
gets up in the morning
and says, today, you know,
I'm going to trigger
this kind of emotion
or this kind of healing
in my body in this moment.
>> Mandy Sims wants to know
if you've discovered anything
recently, after the show,
and anything that proves that
humans have been on this planet
longer than scientifically
proven?
>> You know, after the
show was the election,
and everything just kind
of went crazy after that.
No, I-- I believe that the more
discoveries that are revealed--
and I'm a scholar.
I'm a researcher.
I spend a tremendous
amount of time
researching new discoveries.
I belong to scientific
organizations,
the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, AAAS.
I'm still active in some of
the geologic organizations
that I've participated
with in the past.
It's all about a perspective.
The discoveries are
there, but the discoveries
are not given context.
So scientists simply--
they make a discovery,
and they put it out there.
So for example, scientists
now are in agreement
that human chromosome
number two is
the result of an ancient fusion
of preexisting chromosomes.
That is scientifically accepted.
They're stuck because
there's no context for what
to do with that.
They say, well, what
do we do with that?
Well, there's another discovery
in chromosome number seven.
There's a gene called the
FOXP2, F-O-X P2, chromosome.
Other primates have
this chromosome,
and they've had it
for 75 million years.
It's never changed.
200,000 years ago,
precisely the time
when humans, anatomically modern
humans appeared, that FOXP2--
two little letters were
shifted and gave us
the ability for complex
language and speech in a way
that no other form of life has.
The fact that it happened
precisely when humans emerged,
the fact that it's
never happened
in the ape family, the
precision and the intentionality
that it takes to make
that simple switch,
and the fact that it happened at
the same time human chromosome
number two is being fused,
to me are genetic evidence.
It doesn't say
that it did happen.
It lends to the
credibility, correlates
with the origin of humans.
It tells us that we, our
story, is not evolution.
There's much more to our
story than human evolution,
and when we can
embrace that fact,
then we can dedicate
our brilliant minds
of brilliant scientists,
men and women,
and the tremendous energy, and
the resources, and the funding,
and the backing of
the universities,
to revealing the new human story
rather than spinning our wheels
on a 150-year-old story that has
gotten us nowhere in 150 years
because the evidence has
led us to a dead end.
I talked about this a
little earlier on a podcast.
Here's the deal.
There's a huge
difference between taking
the new discoveries and
forcing them into a preexisting
theory like evolution, and
allowing the new discoveries
to lead to the story
that they tell,
and my proposal is
let's do just that.
Let's allow the new discoveries
to lead us to what--
and be honest with
ourselves about what
it's saying, rather
than fighting to hold on
to a story that has not
budged since it was proposed
in 1859 with Darwin's
theory of evolution,
because that story is
no longer serving us,
and the evidence
doesn't support it.
The physical evidence
and the DNA evidence
doesn't support it.
>> What do you think it'll
take to let that story go.
It's happening right now.
>> There-- the scientists
who are fighting,
struggling to hang
onto that story,
they're the ones you see in
prominent view in the media.
Behind the scenes, there is
a whole cadre of scientists.
They've signed-- there's a
petition that you can actually
view on the worldwide web,
that say we don't know what
did happen, but we know
evolution's not our story,
and we would like the
freedom to pursue this.
But think about this-- if you're
a tenured university professor,
if you're working
in a corporation,
or if you're a
university grad student,
and your funding
hinges on a corporation
who has a vested interest
in evolutionary theory
because it's making drugs
based on that, pharmaceuticals
or something, they
don't have the freedom
to move forward with this.
My reputation as a
scientist was shot
the minute I started talking
about spirituality and science.
The minute I combine
those two, you
know, in terms of publishing
credible scientific papers--
and it's not me.
Other authors have had
the same experience.
And I'm OK with that
because I would rather
research thoroughly
the new discoveries
and share them with a
broad general audience
to bring this information
forward quickly,
than publish to a
small selected audience
where the general public
never sees these things.
And it works.
Quick example-- in
2007, I wrote a book
called "The Divine Matrix."
It's about the field of energy
that connects all things.
It was considered
fringe in 2007.
There were bookstores that
put it on the occult bookshelf
in the back.
Today, that book is a textbook
in leading universities
in the physics department
that are teaching-- physics
and consciousness is what
they're teaching together,
and it's become a "New
York Times" bestseller,
and it's become a classic
in the physics text.
In, what was that, 12 years--
so in that short
a period of time,
by taking my case to the
mainstream with peer reviewed
science backed up--
I mean, rock solid science
from Princeton University
and leading science, it
just wasn't well-known.
It's now almost
common knowledge.
Everybody says, sure, we're
connected with the field.
Of course.
You know, the question is now,
what do we do with that field?
And that's where we
all get to chime in.
>> You mentioned a few of the
books that you've written.
Are you working on
any new books now?
>> Oh, I'm so happy that
you asked me that question.
I was working on a new
book that is now complete.
Two weeks ago, I pushed the
Send button on my computer,
and I sent the finished
manuscript for a new book
that is entitled
"Human by Design--
From Evolution by Chance to
Transformation by Choice,"
is the subtitle.
We've touched on
some of the topics.
The bottom line-- the book
is essentially two parts.
The first part of the
book is the science.
It's not technical,
and it's a lot of fun
to read the case histories.
But it's the science
that is showing us
that there's something
very precious and very
unique and very special about
us, our origin, and human life,
that we're more than
an accident of nature
or a fluke of biology,
some random atoms
happened to come together
just the right time
to create random molecules
that came together
just the right time under
just the right conditions
to create the human body,
and boom, here we are.
There's much more
to us than that.
The second part of the book
is, now that we know that,
what does it mean in our lives?
How do we apply the
extraordinary abilities--
and we touched on some of
these, deep intuition, empathy,
self-healing on demand, enhanced
immune system on demand,
resilience to change?
How do we-- direct access
to our subconscious
when we choose to have it.
All of these abilities
are made possible to us
through the fusion of the DNA
that makes us human, that gives
us our humanness.
Our ancestors knew
this, and they used many
of these in the mystical sense.
My belief is that
what we've always
called extraordinary abilities
are actually ordinary abilities
that we're meant to embrace
in our everyday lives,
to become better people,
to create a better world,
that have been forgotten.
And so my hope is,
first, by describing
how we have come
to be as we are,
we can embrace ourselves as
something very unique, very
precious, very special,
and open the door
to applying those
abilities in our lives.
And this has a
tremendous social context
because the book answers
the question who are we.
The way we answer that question,
the way our young people
answer the question, who am
I, when they're in school--
that determines how
they respond when
they are bullied
by another person,
whether it's cyber bullying
or direct bullying.
It determines when those young
people create the bullying
towards other people.
It's all based on the way
we think of ourselves,
and when a young person knows
with rock solid certainty
that there is something very
unique, very special, very
valuable, and that they
have tremendous worth,
they will interpret that
bullying very differently
from a young person
who believes there's
nothing special about life,
that we're the process of this--
the result of this
random process.
There's nothing special
about it, and they're lost.
They don't have an identity.
So when they are ridiculed
at a very vulnerable age,
and they believe
that, sometimes, they
go as far as to even take
their own lives because they
believe they're not worth--
they're not worth
being in this world.
And that's just one example.
But the way we answer
the question who are we--
it defines the way
we build our society,
the way we solve our problems,
what kind of relationships
we create, who we
share our homes with,
who we share our bed with.
I mean, let's get
real, as adults, it's
all based on who am I, the
way we heal our bodies,
the way communities and
nations come together
to defend themselves.
When we send an army
into another nation,
and how we treat those
people-- as different
as all of those things are, it
all comes down to who are we.
And we've been led
to believe, and we've
been steeped in a
story that's not true.
It's a false story of
separation, competition,
conflict, that there's
nothing special about us
and about life, and we
have the opportunity now
to raise an entire
new generation
with a new understanding, a
new belief that empowers them,
helps them to be the
best people they can be.
>> Lovely.
Well, thank you for
being our teacher,
so that we can be teachers
in the world as well.
Thank you for being
on the show today.
It's been a pleasure.
>> Tiffany, I've tremendously
enjoyed this series and really
enjoyed working with you today.
Thank you so much.
>> That's all the member
questions we have for you
today.
I'm your host, Tiffany Bush.
Thank you so much
for tuning in to hear
your questions being answered.
Stay tuned for new
material from Gregg Braden.
[THEME MUSIC]